The people in the boondocks, they didn't know what
to believe. The VC come in, if they don't do what
they tell them, they'll destroy everything. We
come in, we destroy everything. The civilian
population didn't know what to think.
Did you know much about the enemy? Did you come in
contact? no the only enemy we came in contact with
was after after a battle maybe we did very rarely do
we wind up with any prisoners so we didn't get
first-hand knowledge of the enemy except they
were good and the fact that they set up an ambush
where they wake you right on top of them before they
open fire but it never really met you face to face
usually at a distance The brush is so thick you
can't see them. They can see us. Hell, we're six
foot. They're a little parched. They're hugging
the ground and we're standing straight up. They
see us. We don't see them.
Second time, I went to a PW camp one time, but I
didn't really talk to the enemy. They were just as
dedicated as we were. In fact, they were probably
more dedicated. than we were and definitely more
dedicated than New Orleans.
Did you find any problems with leadership, drugs,
or what's known as fragging? Not in my youth. We did
not have any trouble of any kind. In fact, my troops
wouldn't know what drugs were and where would they
have gotten it? We were never in the cities. We were
strictly in the dugouts. Now, I'm sure that the
troops in Saigon and Vung Tau and Cam Ranh Bay and
all those large places probably had it. Just like
that movie Apocalypse Now, I thought that was one
of the biggest disgraces of the so-called
depiction of Vietnam. If the troops were like
that, In a combat situation, they wouldn't
survive.
I understand later in the 70s there was a lot of drug
use over there. I wasn't there in the 70s. But from
my experience, if you have good leadership, the
troops respect the leader, they're not going to
get involved in that stuff because, hey, they want
to go home. They're not going to go home if they're
stoning on a combat operation. That's just
inviting disaster. As far as leadership goes,
well,
in the officer ranks in our division, an officer
spent six months in the field and then he'd be taken
to the rear and put in a staff position someplace.
An enlisted man, he's committed to the boondocks
from the day he got there until the day he leaves. So
your
average enlisted man and the noncommissioned
officer, they're the ones that are constantly in
each other's contact. And to my knowledge, in our
unit, with a very few exceptions, the troops had
complete faith in their noncommissioned
officer. They can care less about an officer. In
fact, sometimes I believe the only reason some of
these characters become officers is they know
they can't make it as an enlisted
man. What did you think about careerism, people
trying to get ahead by falsifying body counts? I
have no use for that stuff. I mean, if you can find a
body, fine, you found it. But don't say there's ten
when you don't find one. Don't falsify any
reports, be honest. I mean, it's the same thing
as... You don't need to falsify any kind of
information to get advantage. To get advanced,
all you got to do is do your job to the best of your
ability. You don't have to falsify or fake
anything. In fact, I think I'm, I hope I'm a good
example of that. I wound up one of the youngest
first sergeants that I ever heard of in the United
States Army. In fact, the average person doesn't
make first sergeant until after he's been 18
years. I only had something like 12 when I became a
first sergeant. And in fact, that turned the
sergeant major down so that I could retire,
because if I'd accepted what I'd had, it would stay
two more years. But after I finally made staff
sergeant, nine months later I became a sergeant in
first class. A year, year and a half later, I became
a first sergeant. I just, to me at the time, I
thought I was in the right place at the right time.
But I had a couple commanders told me otherwise.
But we won't rule you that way. Do you think the
methods we used to measure the war were
sufficient? No. I don't think anything used to
measure what took place in Vietnam is even
remotely accurate. Vietnam was a political
fiasco.
Soldiers don't declare war. Soldiers don't start
war. Soldiers are only there to fight war. The
politicians are the ones who make decisions. We
couldn't do anything in Vietnam without some
clown in Washington, D.C., telling us to do it. It
was just a political expediency. One, I think it
was a testing ground for some of our new weapons,
what used to be called Cochrane. At the time,
Cochrane was classified. But half the weapons we
used in Vietnam were relatively new. Never been
tried before. Never tried in Vietnam.
I didn't volunteer to go to Vietnam.
But I went. Because I was sick. I thought I went
there to fight a war.
And our political ideology is right. We're trying
to contain communism. But we didn't contain any
communism. All we did was destroy. It wasn't like
World War II. Everything about World War II was
well defined. On top of that, our philosophy is not
to conquer.
We want to win, but then when we win, we don't
exploit. We rebuild. And as a result, Germany and
Japan are two of the greatest industrial nations
in the world today because we helped rebuild after
we defeated them. Vietnam, we abandoned them. In
fact, we abandoned them right after World War II.
During World War II, Ho Chi Minh fought with the
American OSS. against the Japanese. And because
of World War II, the French government had to
abandon Vietnam. Vietnam was a colony of France.
And that colonialism was interrupted briefly
during World War II. And after the war,
the Allies abandoned Vietnam Ho Chi Minh asked for
our assistance to prevent the French from coming
back and establishing colonialism again. We
didn't even respond to his request. We just flat
ignored him. And the French come back again with
their arrogance and everything and recolonizes
the Vietnamese people and Ho Chi Minh Well, his
name wasn't Wu Chi Minh, really, but that's what he
became. And he was constantly asking for
assistance. We want to be a free and independent
country. We don't want to be a lackey of France,
this and that. And the British, they're just
exploiting us. They're taking all the resources
out, treating the people like slaves. So... the
Viet Minh's predator, fighting against
France. And, of course, Ho Chi Minh was the
principal leader of the Viet Minh, where the name
Minh comes from.
Now, they were doing pretty good. In fact, just
before D&D and Pew, when they quit France, France
asked for our assistance to help them out. And we
refused, so France kicked us, our military
forces, out of France. They stayed in NATO, but
they kicked us out of France. We had a pretty bad
relationship with France. But we didn't go in and
help the French against the Vietnamese. We didn't
help the Vietnamese against the French, although
we were there. We'd been there ever since World War
II. The average person doesn't know that. And then
all of a sudden, after Vietnam, after the Indian
Peel in 1954, then there was already a North and
South Vietnam. And then the South Vietnamese
asked for assistance against the North
Vietnamese. And we had a treaty with them, and so we
assist the South Vietnamese against the North
Vietnamese. Here we're fighting an old ally who,
if The politicians that paid attention during
World War II, there would not have been such a thing
as North and South Vietnam. There would not have
been communism in Vietnam. It would have been a
democracy. But since we would not assist the
Vietnamese back in 46, 47 later, they went to the
communists for assistance. And that's why you
have communist regime in Vietnam.
What did you think about what was going on back home
with demonstrations and the National Guard?
Well, I don't care for all the demonstrations and
whatnot. In fact, the people in the United States
didn't really know what was going on in Vietnam
except what they saw on TV. And TV news and Vietnam
was the first war ever broadcast on TV. But it's
one-sided. And journalists,
their function is to sell a story. They don't go out
and get a really true depiction of what's going on.
Now, what they showed on TV was factual, but it was
the presentation. They twist things around. CBS
in particular is good for that.
But that's one thing about being an American. If
you don't agree, you have the right to get up and say
something. And that's one reason why I spent my
life in the military. To protect that freedom.
People are free to voice their opinion. As long as
their opinion doesn't hurt somebody else. And
they can demonstrate all they want. They can
holler at me and say anything they want. But I know
what I did. They don't know what I did. They just
think they
know. People coming back from World War II, Korea,
they came back as heroes. People coming back from
Vietnam, they just spit at you. But that just won't
show ignorance. They think that we're there
killing little babies, and I'm sure we did for the
most part. But most of that is accidental.
I mean, you can't control mass bombing, or mass
artillery strike. You know there's an enemy
there, but those enemies are also going to have
other people around them. So we try not to conduct
atrocities.
The National Guard's a good organization. In
fact, half the people in the National Guard are
ex-military personnel, active duty. And they've
proven themselves in many wars.
How about selective service?
The draft? I think the draft is necessary.
There shouldn't be a volunteer military force.
Everybody should devote a little bit of time. Two
years for the draft is sufficient. Chances of a
person having to go to combat are relatively slim.
Military experience is good for anybody. But one
of these days, and I doubt if it's all that far away,
there's going to be a war on American soil.
Somebody is going to try to take over the United
States. And fortunately, I don't believe they'll
ever win.
The private citizen in the United States has too
many weapons. to let some foreign power come in
here and overtake us. And we're about the only
country in the world where the private citizen can
have weapons. Europeans, Asians, it's still
legal for them to have anything more than a
12-gauge shotgun.
But Americans are well armed and we intend to keep
our freedom
one of these days. We've been lucky. There's never
been a war fought on our soil since the American
Civil War, fortunately. But with today's
weaponry, we can fire it on from hundreds of miles
away, and all they need to do is a couple of
well-placed rounds, missiles so to speak, in
certain areas, and they can come in with air
assault or amphibious and go to town. They could
cripple us in one day before we could respond.
Because everything we have is centrally located
pretty much and it's spread out but it's all, for
example, you take Houston. One missile in
Pasadena would wipe out Harris County in several
surrounding counties just from one round
everything will be spontaneous
all of our military bases san antonio has
something like four air force bases and an army
base all within a small area everything in the
united states is well documented well publicized
our potential enemy is russia
they have all the order of battle they need about us
They can pick up any newspaper, how their
satellites fly around, whatnot. They know where
our key areas are. And I'm sure they have a missile
aimed at that particular location. They even know
where our missile silos are. It's supposed to be
top secret. But we don't know where
three-quarters of their stuff is. They're
secretive. We're too open-minded.
However, nobody is ever going to conquer the
United States.
It would be impossible. They might inflict a hell
of a lot of casualties, but then all of a sudden we'd
be just like the partisans in Czechoslovakia and
Yugoslavia during World War II. In all your
movies, they always depict the French partisans,
but the French were secondary compared to the
Yugoslavs. and the Czechoslovakians. They were
the true fighters of World War
II. How could we have won the war? Who do you think is
responsible for our holy hell? And should we have
even been
there to begin with? First, I don't think we should
have been there unless we went in right after World
War II. If we had gone in right after World War II, we
could have set up a sovereign government just like
we did with Germany and Japan. We were there and
done with old French, Britain, and the United
States and Germany. And then in 1955, we returned
sovereignty to the German people. We did it before
that in Japan. We could have done it for Vietnam.
But our politicians sent us there. So there we
were. If the politicians had kept their nose out of
it, if they were going to commit us to fight a war,
they should have let us fight it. The way we know
it's supposed to be. We could have started at one
end of that country and swept on through and there
wouldn't have been anything there. Except
Reynolds. We could have driven the unfriendlies
out. No doubt about it. We had the manpower. We had
the weapons. And we have the know-how. But the
politicians were the idiots fighting the war. But
they're fighting it several thousand miles away.
Now, if the politicians are going to commit us to a
war, we ought to put the politicians in there and
let them fight it and see how long it goes. There
probably wouldn't be one to start with. But
they're safe and sound back in Washington, D.C.,
or Well, when they do go to a combat zone, they don't
get out of Saigon or Cam Ranh Bay. They don't get to
places like Don Tan and Mito and Van Head,
Klajurang. They stay back there where it's
relatively safe. Politicians are exponents of
freedom. We did not lose the war. We were not
allowed to fight the war. And then as a result,
because of the casualties mounting up, The
sentiment back home, they come up with some ploy
and they withdraw. Well, since they did it that
way, why did they put us there in the first
place? How do you feel about Vietnam and the
conflict today? Is it any different from before? I
wish we had been able to establish a sovereign
nation. if the North wanted to stay communist,
fine. But I can't really see any one nation trying
to inflict its view, its policy, or anything, on
another nation. And we're very bad about that. We
try to, we think we're the only, we're the king of
the crop, and we try to inflict our view on
everybody else.
Vietnamese people, there's nothing wrong with
the people. They just want to live in a world of
peace. Right now, they're still not in peace. The
communists come in and put their indoctrination
in on everything, and those that had something in
the past, they don't have any spot now. And the ones
that didn't have anything in the past, they have
even less now. The poorer get poorer. Same with The
Vietnamese people were abandoned after we told
them we were going to help them. And any of those
people that did assist us, when the Communists
came in, they were annihilated. That's why you
have so many refugees now, so-called boat people,
trying to get away. That tells the world about
Communism. Even in Europe today, the Berlin Wall.
The Berlin Wall still can't keep everybody in. Why
build a wall to keep people in? Walls are supposed
to keep people out.
That's all. Thank you very much for allowing me to
interview you. You're welcome.